The Instagram news cycle is seemingly
never ending with a constant flood of
new features, algorithm updates, and app
changes. And so today, I'm going to
share with you nine new Instagram
changes that are going to actually make
a difference for you if you're trying to
grow your brand, your business, get more
views or more followers on Instagram.
Number one, let's hop right into this
video with some not so great news. And
that is that Instagram has removed the
share to Facebook option. And because of
that, many users are reporting
significant drops in their views.
Essentially, this change was done a
little bit in secret. Instagram hasn't
made a formal announcement, but most
people are now reporting that their
ability to automatically post their
reels to Facebook has disappeared. In
addition to this change, not only is
Instagram no longer allowing creators to
automatically share their reels to
Facebook, but they are no longer
combining the views across both
platforms. Essentially, for the last few
months, many users have seen their total
real views not just be reflected on the
number of views that they're getting on
Instagram, but also the number of views
that they're getting on Facebook. Now,
of course, you can still share your
reels to Facebook. You just can't do it
automatically. You can't do it in a way
that it's connected to your Instagram,
and Instagram will not show you the
number of views from both platforms.
Essentially, you'll have to download or
save your reel prior to posting it on
Instagram and then upload it separately
to Facebook in order to get those views
on Facebook. But again, this is a pretty
big change that has affected a lot of
creators and we haven't had any official
announcement from Meta in regards to
this change. This is something that's
worth checking into because it's very
possible that you were getting a large
chunk of views from Facebook and you're
no longer getting those views. All that
you can do and all that I would
recommend doing is downloading your
reels like I already mentioned and
posting them separately to Facebook. The
second update is the biggest update of
all and this is going to be one of the
biggest changes to the app maybe that
we've ever seen definitely the biggest
changes that we've seen in the last 5 to
10 years and that is a complete app
redesign. Now this feature just like
most of the features I'm going to list
today are still being rolled out. So,
Instagram can't just flip a switch and
then suddenly all three billion active
users get all the same features at the
same time. I remember back a few years
ago when reels first came out that it
took over a year and a half for every
user to get access to reels, which when
you think about how central and how
important reels are to the platform,
keep that in mind when you're thinking
about these maybe less important
features. But the one I'm talking about
right now is not less important. It is
massive and it is going to be rolled out
worldwide over the next few months. And
that is a redesign of how the app looks.
Now, I mentioned this a few weeks ago. I
told you it would be coming soon. So, by
the way, if you haven't already
subscribed, make sure that you stay
subscribed to the podcast. A lot of
y'all are watching every week or
listening every week, but you don't even
realize you're not subscribed. So, make
sure that you're subscribed so that in
the future when I do tell you, hey,
coming soon there's a new feature
update, you actually get that episode in
your app so you can watch it, listen,
and know about this update before it's
actually coming to fruition, before it
actually hits. But it has hit now and it
has been officially announced and it is
being rolled out. And essentially, the
new app layout is going to look like
this. In the upper leftand corner,
there's now going to be a plus button
and that is going to be the create post
button. When you click that button, it's
going to take you to the Instagram
stories camera, which is where you can
create an Instagram story. You can also
create a reel, go live, or create a post
from this page. At the top center will
be the Instagram logo with a little drop
down arrow to the right of it. That drop
down arrow will allow you to filter
through the three different feeds that
Instagram offers, which is actually a
feature that no one really uses, yet
it's something that everyone asks for.
Almost every single time Adam Moseri,
the head of Instagram, makes a post,
people say, "We want the chronological
feed." Well, you've actually had the
option to switch into a chronological
feed for the last 3 years. Back in 2022,
Instagram gave us the option to switch
to a chronological feed whenever we
want. So now, when you see that
Instagram logo and the little down arrow
to the right of it, tapping on that down
arrow will give you three options. It
will give you the main home feed, which
is what we're used to seeing. On the
main home feed, you get a collection of
recommended posts from people you don't
follow, ads from advertisers, and posts
from the people you actually do follow.
You'll also have the option to view a
favorites feed, which is, you guessed
it, a feed with just the people who you
have added to the favorites. But there
is an algorithm operating in that feed.
Because if you've added, let's say, 17
different creators to your list of
favorites, there is still going to be an
algorithm to decide which favorite is
your most favorite and which post you
should actually see first. And then the
third and final option is a feed called
following. The following feed is a
chronological feed with only people you
follow. When you click on that feed for
the very first time, if you've never
experienced it, you're going to be
thrown off a little bit, especially if
you're someone like most of us who
follows hundreds or thousands of people
on Instagram because you're going to see
a bunch of posts from people who you're
like, "Wait, I haven't seen them in
years. Wait, I didn't even realize I
followed this person." And honestly, it
might be a little bit jarring at first,
but hey, if you want to swap into a
chronological feed, you can do that at
any time using that feature. Going back
to the new app layout though, in the
upper right hand corner, where we used
to see notifications and direct
messages, you will now only see
notifications. So, there will be a
little heart in the upper right hand
corner. And when you tap on that, you'll
be able to view a summary of all of the
recent likes, comments, and other
engagements that your posts have
received. Then, below the top menu bar
will be the Instagram stories. And this
has been unchanged. Your story will
still appear in the first position in
the upper left and then all subsequent
stories will appear after that in a
scrollable horizontal feed. And so
again, that's the home tab. It's in
what's called the first position, the
bottom right button. The second
position, one button to the right, which
is currently the explore page, is now
going to be changed to the reels tab.
The reels tab, as confusing as this may
sounds, is not only for reals. It's
primarily for reals, but it's also for
carousels where music has been added.
So, pro tip, if you're ever going to
post a carousel on Instagram, make sure
that you add music so that it has
eligibility to show up on the reels tab.
And I know that's super confusing, but
since reels are one of the primary
drivers of Instagram's growth, that's
why they are moving reels to be in the
new second position. Another driver of
Instagram's growth is direct messages.
And so direct messages are now going to
be in the third position. Basically the
bottom center button. The button that is
currently the plus sign in order to
create a new post. That's now going to
be DMs. One to the right of that in the
fourth position is currently the reals
tab and it is now going to be changed to
be the explore page. So basically the
explore page has moved from the second
position over to the fourth position.
And the explore page from our
understanding is not going to look any
different than it currently does. And
then last but not least, the fifth and
final position in the bottom right is
and will still be your profile tab.
Besides all of those visual changes,
Instagram is seeking to make it easier
to swap between each tab. So, right now,
currently, you have to tap on each tab
to switch. Instagram is going to allow
us to swipe left and right to swap
between the different pages. So, if I'm
on the home feed, the bottom left
button, and I want to get to my profile,
I can still tap on the bottom right
button and swap over to my profile, or I
can swipe to the right, thus swiping
through the reels page, the DMs, the new
explorer page, and then to my profile.
Basically, they're trying to make it a
more seamless experience so that there's
less tapping and more swiping. Now, this
new layout, when it first gets rolled
out, when you first get access to it,
it's probably going to be confusing.
It's probably going to be overwhelming.
That's what most people are reporting.
But from my conversations with a lot of
my followers on Instagram, it seems like
after the first few days, it actually
becomes more intuitive and easier to
use. So hopefully that's the case for
you. Now, of course, an app redesign
that's affecting all of us is probably
not going to affect views or engagement
in any way, positively or negatively,
because we're all experiencing the same
change. And it's not a change to the
algorithms or really a change to the
platform and how it operates. It's just
a change to the buttons we press and
where the buttons are located. But with
all that said, moving on. Now, the third
new Instagram update is an update to
Instagram stories with a brand new
feature called AI restyle. Essentially,
from now on, anytime you take a photo
with your Instagram stories, there is
going to be a little paintbrush with a
sparkle icon in the upper right hand
corner. And when you tap on that, you
can use Meta AI to restyle your image.
Basically, you can do a total image
redesign. You can change your outfit.
You could add a top hat. You could add
sparkles. You could add a disco ball.
There are a lot of different
capabilities. But in all honesty,
playing around with it, it's not any
different than using Chat GPT's image
generator or really any other AI based
image generator. The only difference, of
course, is that it's baked into
Instagram. And so, you don't have to
have a separate app. You don't have to
go to these different AI subscription
services. You can just use it right in
Instagram. take your photo on Instagram
stories and make little edits that way.
I don't think it's something that is
necessarily going to revolutionize your
views. I don't think Instagram is going
to give preferential treatment to
Instagram stories using this AI restyle
feature. Although, with that being said,
of course, I will test and look into it
and I will report back on what I find.
But my assumption is this is just a
little feature that Instagram is giving
us to kind of blur the lines between the
metaverse and Instagram itself and make
it easier for us to start using the
little AI features that Meta AI is
creating. The next Instagram update
might be the biggest flipping update of
all. And of course, in good old
Instagram fashion, it's a new feature
that we can use on Instagram that isn't
actually provided by Instagram. This new
feature will allow you to automatically
and instantly send a direct message to
anyone when they follow you. So, the
second a new person follows your
account, they can receive an automatic
and instantaneous message from you
saying whatever it is that you want it
to say. There have been some sketchy
online tools that have provided this
feature for the last few years, but
they're sketchy and they were never
approved by Instagram. And I do know a
lot of creators manually send messages
to their new followers welcoming them to
their page, asking a question, and just
introducing themselves in the DMs. But
now we have an officially approved by
Instagram, approved by Meta way to
instantly and automatically DM our new
followers. Of course, this is only
available through Manyhat. Manyhat is a
platform that I've been using for over 5
years. I've been partnered with for the
last three or four years. I did an
entire episode a few weeks ago breaking
down the benefits of using it on your
stories and your feed posts, but this is
a new feature that is exclusively
available through Many Chat, and I think
it's going to be very, very helpful.
Now, word to the wise, word of caution.
I think a lot of people are going to use
this to try to make a quick sale. But
the reality is when someone follows you
is not the instance that they're going
to buy from you. They're going to buy
down the line once they trust you, once
they know you, once they really like
your stuff, and they keep seeing you in
the feed over and over again. So, if
when someone follows you, you instantly
send them a message that's like trying
to make a sale, trying to ask them about
their weight loss journey just so you
can sell your weight loss supplements,
that's going to get you a lot of
unfollows and not a lot of customers.
Instead, when you do get a new follower,
if you are going to be using this new
automation from ManyHat, I would highly
suggest using it just as an opportunity
to send a quick thank you. Hey, thanks
so much for following. I really
appreciate it. Hey, I appreciate you
following me. I post every single day
about rock climbing tips. Don't forget
to check out my broadcast channel for
helpful alerts, things like that that
are just easy. They don't cost anything.
They're not even a freebie or like a
digital download or a way to get people
on your email list. It's just purely an
act of gratitude, a way to thank them
for following and introduce yourself. It
begins that conversation. Think of it
like this. If you're a single looking to
date and you're out at a coffee shop and
you make eye contact with a cutie, you
don't walk over and then get on one knee
with the engagement ring. You maybe
smile or wave. Or maybe you make eye
contact a few more times and then you go
over and you introduce yourself and you
say, "Hi, nice to meet you. I'm such and
such." But you don't launch right into
the wedding. You don't launch right into
the engagement. You don't launch right
into the sale. So just start simple,
start easy, introduce yourself, express
some gratitude, and that's all you need
to do. But with that being said, I do
think that this feature is going to be a
gamecher and it's going to be so so
helpful for the average Instagram user
because when someone follows you, it
might not be when they're most likely to
become a customer, but it is the peak of
their engagement cycle. The moment that
someone follows you is usually the peak
of when they are most engaged, most
attentive to, and most interested in
your account. And so being able to
direct message them at that moment and
just start the conversation, it can
create a cycle of engagement so that
that peak doesn't immediately fall off a
cliff. The fifth new Instagram feature
that you need to be aware of is one that
is currently in testing or at least it's
reportedly in testing. The new feature
that I'm referring to is the ability to
schedule Instagram stories right in the
app. And there's some conflicting
information out about this feature
because numerous Instagram beta testers
have reported that they have gotten
access to this feature which shows that
it is quite literally in testing. And
yet on his Instagram stories, Adam
Moseri said, "No, we're never really
going to make a feature like that. We
have no plans to make a feature like
that." And so there's some conflicting
information out there.
>> No plans to build scheduled stories
right now. I get that it might be
helpful for some of you, but we want
stories just to be a more authentic way
to share things in the moment. And if
you're planning them in advance, that's
sort of at odds with the whole point of
stories. That doesn't mean we'll never
do it, but right now it's not a
priority.
>> Maybe he just doesn't know that they're
working on it. Maybe they were working
on it, but then they decided to scrap it
and so he's giving us the updated
information. I'm not sure. So, I'm just
going to tell you the information so
that you're aware of it. Now, most
thirdparty scheduling tools already
allow you to schedule stories. I
schedule all of my feed posts, my reels,
and my carousels on Metriccool. And if I
wanted to, I could also schedule my
stories on metrical. Now, I don't
because I'm in agreement with Adam
Moseri that the purpose of Instagram
stories is not to pre-plan, to curate,
to edit in advance, and create for your
Instagram stories. Instagram stories are
supposed to be about documentation over
creation or over curation. But with that
being said, I can absolutely think of
numerous examples of how scheduling an
Instagram story would actually be very
helpful. For example, if I'm doing a
brand deal and I know the brand needs me
to post at 11:00 a.m. on a specific day,
well, I have to get that story approved
in advance, which means that it's
created in advance, so I might as well
schedule it in advance so that I don't
have to also worry about posting it on
that day. I can also imagine a small
business owner who knows that they have
an upcoming sale or an upcoming launch.
And so, instead of having to remember to
post your stories at the exact moment on
that day, you could schedule them. You
could even schedule them. Another
example of this is if you had a sale
that let's say ends at midnight. Well,
if stories are up for 24 hours, well
then theoretically you would want the
story to be posted at like 12:01 or
11:59 the night before so that it's up
for the full day of the sale, but
there's no bleed over period, right?
There's not like a 4-hour period because
you posted at 4:00 a.m. So then from
midnight to 4:00 a.m. the sale has
ended, but the story is still up. Or
maybe you post it the night before
before you went to bed. You posted it at
10 p.m. So now the story expires at 10
p.m. and there's two hours left where
the sale is still ongoing but you have
no story, right? If you can only have a
story up for 24 hours, it would be
advantageous if we could schedule the
story to post right at midnight. That
way we don't have to stay awake and
manually post it at midnight, but we
could capitalize and take advantage of
the full 24 hours of the sale by having
a story up. So, even though I don't
think necessarily the majority of users,
the majority of Instagrammers will use
scheduled stories, I think for us small
business owners and creators, it would
be advantageous to at least have this
feature. And so, despite what Adam
Moseri says, they appear to be working
on creating this for us. New Instagram
update number six is the ability to
automatically translate and dub your
reels between English, Spanish, Hindi,
and Portuguese. Now, this was originally
rolled out a few months ago and it was
just between English and Spanish, but
now they have also added Hindi and
Portuguese because those four languages
are the four most common languages on
Instagram.
>> Most of the videos on Instagram are in a
language that you don't speak, but that
does not mean that you're not interested
in them. And so, today we're announcing
that we're expanding our translations to
more languages.
Spanish, Portugal or
Facebook.
Now, this is a feature that I absolutely
think will help you get more views,
especially if you have the capacity for
a worldwide audience. If you have a nail
salon that can only get customers within
your local city, well then it doesn't
really make sense to translate your
reels into a language that most people
in your city don't speak. I understand
that. But for those of us who are trying
to reach a worldwide audience, for those
of us who are trying to get more views,
go viral, and reach more people, this is
going to be very helpful. Every time I
talk about this feature, it gets not
great engagement. Every time I post
about this feature, people don't seem
that interested in it. And I think it's
a real missed opportunity because not
only will your reels be automatically
translated, but Instagram is using AI to
voice dub them so that it's your voice
speaking a different language, which is
pretty trippy the first time you hear
it. And they're even offering AI lip
dubbing so that your lips aren't
speaking English, but the words coming
out are in Spanish. It will actually use
AI to edit your video ever so slightly
just over your mouth so that it looks
like you are speaking Spanish and the
audio is in Spanish and it's your voice
speaking Spanish. It's pretty flipping
cool. It's pretty crazy. All you have to
do to use this feature is just turn on
the toggle before you press post.
Instagram update number seven is yet
another update that Instagram is testing
and has not been officially announced or
rolled out yet, but that is adding more
images or the option to add more images
to your carousels. Now, for the first
decade or so that carousels existed, you
could only post up to 10 photos and
videos in your carousels, the slideshow
posts. But then in 2024, they gave us
the ability to add up to 20 images or
videos in our carousels. But recently,
Adam Moseri himself posted a carousel
that had 24 different slides. This was a
first of its kind. We've never seen a
carousel before that had more than 20
carousels. And now some people have
started to notice the ability to post
more than 20 slides in their carousels.
So again, not official, still in
testing, but very soon we might be able
to post more than 20 slides in our
carousels, which is pretty crazy. By the
way, speaking of carousels, just last
week I did a video that had eight
creative Instagram carousel ideas. as it
was an update of an earlier video that I
did from this year with eight other
Instagram carousel ideas. So, definitely
check those out and between the two
videos, you'll have 16 creative,
trending, viral Instagram carousel
ideas. Instagram update number eight is
another feature that Instagram is
working on. And this one is going to be
super helpful. This feature is going to
give you the ability to share your reel
to your story, but when you do, you can
select an exact moment within your reel
that the story will begin playing.
Currently, how it works on Instagram is
that when you share your reel to your
story, it automatically just starts
playing from the very beginning of the
reel, which in many cases will be what
you want because that's where your hook
is. And the video might not make sense
from the middle. But let's imagine that
in your reel, you are telling a very
dramatic story. And so when you share
that reel to your Instagram story, you
don't want it to start at the beginning.
You want it to start like right at the
climax, right at the most dramatic part,
so that the people who are watching your
stories are like, "What is it? I need to
watch the full reel to get the full
story. Of course, that's just one idea.
I'm sure there are plenty of other
creative ways and reasons why you might
want to start your reel at a specific
moment when you share it to your story.
So, that is something that Instagram is
testing and currently working on. And I
do think it's going to be a very useful
tool for increasing engagement on our
reels and getting people from our
Instagram stories into the actual reel
itself. And then finally, last but not
least, maybe the most helpful feature
that Instagram could come out with is
one that they are currently testing, and
that is the ability to add clickable
links to our reels. Yes, for the first
time ever, Instagram is working on
giving us the option to put a URL in our
caption and add it to the reel or as a
clickable little button that will appear
at the very very bottom of the reel.
This is something that Instagram has
never done before. And for the history
of Instagram, for the over 15 years that
Instagram has been Instagram, when you
put a link on your post in your reel, on
the caption, it's not clickable. And so
it sucks. And so don't do it. It's a
waste of time, energy, and effort
because no one's going to be able to
click it. And there's no chance
someone's going to like take a
screenshot of it and then write down
what it was, then go to their browser
and type it in. It's just not going to
happen. And so with this new feature
that Instagram is testing, it could be
easier than ever before to distribute
links, get people to go to our landing
page, go to our YouTube, whatever it may
be, by adding clickable links to our
reels. We'll see. It's still in testing.
And of course, I will update you here on
the Build Your Tribe podcast as soon as
it does come out, if it ever does
actually get rolled out worldwide. Thank
you so much for watching or listening
today. Don't forget to hit that like
button if you enjoyed this video. I will
see you in next week's video. And as
always, happy networking.